README.md, before:

# Laravel Intl

Easy to use internationalization functions for Laravel and Lumen based on various libraries for easy retrieval of
localized values and formatting of numeric values into their localized patterns.

This is a fork of [Propaganistas/Laravel-Intl](https://github.com/Propaganistas/Laravel-Intl). I will continue to maintain this package because I use it extensively in my own projects.

Feel free to provide pull requests. I will include them as fast as possible!

## 💥 Upgrade from Propaganistas/Laravel-Intl

In composer.json change requirement from `propaganistas/laravel-intl` to:

    "marvinrabe/laravel-intl": "^1.0",

I changed the namespace of this package (because I am selfish 🤪). In your project search for `Propaganistas` and replace it with `MarvinRabe`.

Thanks for migrating to this package!

## Overview

* [Installation](#installation)
* [Usage](#usage)
    * [Country](#country)
    * [Currency](#currency)
    * [Date](#date)
    * [Language](#language)
    * [Number](#number)
* [Changing locales](#changing-locales)
    
## Installation

Run the following command to install the latest version of the package

```bash
composer require marvinrabe/laravel-intl
```

### Laravel
If you don't use auto-discovery, open up your app config and add the Service Provider to the `$providers` array:

 ```php
'providers' => [
    ...
    MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\IntlServiceProvider::class,
],
```

### Lumen
In `bootstrap/app.php`, register the Service Provider

 ```php
$app->register(MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\IntlServiceProvider::class);
```

## Usage

> Note: **always** use the helper functions or Facades, or make use of dependency injection.

### Country

Output localized country names.
```php
use MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\Facades\Country;

// Application locale: nl
Country::name('US'); // Verenigde Staten
Country::all(); // ['US' => 'Verenigde Staten', 'BE' => 'België', ...]
```

```php
// Application locale: en
country('US'); // United States
country()->all(); // ['US' => 'United States', 'BE' => 'Belgium', ...]
```

### Currency

Output localized currency names and format currency amounts into their localized pattern.

```php
use MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\Facades\Currency;

// Application locale: nl
Currency::name('USD'); // Amerikaanse dollar
Currency::symbol('USD'); // $
Currency::format(1000, 'USD'); // $ 1.000,00
Currency::formatAccounting(-1234, 'USD'); // (US$ 1.234,00)
Currency::all(); // ['USD' => 'Amerikaanse dollar', 'EUR' => 'Euro', ...]
```

```php
// Application locale: en
currency('USD'); // US Dollar
currency()->symbol('USD'); // $
currency(1000, 'USD'); // $1,000.00
currency()->all(); // ['USD' => 'US Dollar', 'EUR' => 'Euro', ...]
```

Parse localized values into native PHP numbers.

```php
use MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\Facades\Currency;

// Application locale: nl
Currency::parse('€ 1.234,50'); // 1234.5
```

```php
// Application locale: nl
currency()->parse('€ 1.234,50'); // 1234.5
```

### Date

Just use `Illuminate\Support\Facades\Date`.

Additional methods are also available to output localized common date formats. E.g. `toShortDateString()`:

* Locale "en": 1/31/2018
* Locale "nl": 31-01-2018

````php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Date;

$date = Date::now(); // or carbon()->now()

$date->toShortDateString();
$date->toMediumDateString();
$date->toLongDateString();
$date->toFullDateString();

$date->toShortTimeString();
$date->toMediumTimeString();
$date->toLongTimeString();
$date->toFullTimeString();

$date->toShortDatetimeString();
$date->toMediumDatetimeString();
$date->toLongDatetimeString();
$date->toFullDatetimeString();
````

### Language

Output localized language names.

```php
use MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\Facades\Language;

// Application locale: nl
Language::name('en'); // Engels
Language::all(); // ['en' => 'Engels', 'nl' => 'Nederlands', ...]
```

```php
// Application locale: en
language('en'); // English
language()->all(); // ['en' => 'English', 'nl' => 'Dutch', ...]
```

### Number

Output localized numeric values into their localized pattern.

```php
use MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\Facades\Number;

// Application locale: en
Number::format(1000); // '1,000'
Number::percent('0.75'); // '75%'
```

```php
// Application locale: fr
number(1000); // '1 000'
number()->percent('0.75'); // '75 %'
```

Parse localized values into native PHP numbers.

```php
use MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\Facades\Number;

// Application locale: fr
Number::parse('1 000'); // 1000
number()->parse('1,5'); // 1.5
```

## Changing locales

Ever feel the need to use a locale other than the current application locale? You can temporarily use another locale by using the `usingLocale()` method.

```php
country()->name('US'); // United States

country()->usingLocale('nl', function($country) {
    return $country->name('US');
}); // Verenigde Staten

country()->name('US'); // United States
```

Alternatively, you can force each component individually to the preferred locale for the remainder of the application by calling the `setLocale()` on the helper function or Facade.
Usually you'd set this in the `boot()` method of a *ServiceProvider*.

Commit message:

doc: added error message example

README.md, after:

# Laravel Intl

Easy to use internationalization functions for Laravel and Lumen based on various libraries for easy retrieval of
localized values and formatting of numeric values into their localized patterns.

This is a fork of [Propaganistas/Laravel-Intl](https://github.com/Propaganistas/Laravel-Intl). I will continue to maintain this package because I use it extensively in my own projects.

Feel free to provide pull requests. I will include them as fast as possible!

## 💥 Upgrade from Propaganistas/Laravel-Intl

Probably you see this message all the time when installing Composer dependencies:

> Package propaganistas/laravel-intl is abandoned, you should avoid using it. No replacement was suggested.

Don't worry! This is the replacement you seek.

In composer.json change requirement from `propaganistas/laravel-intl` to:

    "marvinrabe/laravel-intl": "^1.0",

I changed the namespace of this package (because I am selfish 🤪). In your project search for `Propaganistas` and replace it with `MarvinRabe`.

Thanks for migrating to this package!

## Overview

* [Installation](#installation)
* [Usage](#usage)
    * [Country](#country)
    * [Currency](#currency)
    * [Date](#date)
    * [Language](#language)
    * [Number](#number)
* [Changing locales](#changing-locales)
    
## Installation

Run the following command to install the latest version of the package

```bash
composer require marvinrabe/laravel-intl
```

### Laravel
If you don't use auto-discovery, open up your app config and add the Service Provider to the `$providers` array:

 ```php
'providers' => [
    ...
    MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\IntlServiceProvider::class,
],
```

### Lumen
In `bootstrap/app.php`, register the Service Provider

 ```php
$app->register(MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\IntlServiceProvider::class);
```

## Usage

> Note: **always** use the helper functions or Facades, or make use of dependency injection.

### Country

Output localized country names.
```php
use MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\Facades\Country;

// Application locale: nl
Country::name('US'); // Verenigde Staten
Country::all(); // ['US' => 'Verenigde Staten', 'BE' => 'België', ...]
```

```php
// Application locale: en
country('US'); // United States
country()->all(); // ['US' => 'United States', 'BE' => 'Belgium', ...]
```

### Currency

Output localized currency names and format currency amounts into their localized pattern.

```php
use MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\Facades\Currency;

// Application locale: nl
Currency::name('USD'); // Amerikaanse dollar
Currency::symbol('USD'); // $
Currency::format(1000, 'USD'); // $ 1.000,00
Currency::formatAccounting(-1234, 'USD'); // (US$ 1.234,00)
Currency::all(); // ['USD' => 'Amerikaanse dollar', 'EUR' => 'Euro', ...]
```

```php
// Application locale: en
currency('USD'); // US Dollar
currency()->symbol('USD'); // $
currency(1000, 'USD'); // $1,000.00
currency()->all(); // ['USD' => 'US Dollar', 'EUR' => 'Euro', ...]
```

Parse localized values into native PHP numbers.

```php
use MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\Facades\Currency;

// Application locale: nl
Currency::parse('€ 1.234,50'); // 1234.5
```

```php
// Application locale: nl
currency()->parse('€ 1.234,50'); // 1234.5
```

### Date

Just use `Illuminate\Support\Facades\Date`.

Additional methods are also available to output localized common date formats. E.g. `toShortDateString()`:

* Locale "en": 1/31/2018
* Locale "nl": 31-01-2018

````php
use Illuminate\Support\Facades\Date;

$date = Date::now(); // or carbon()->now()

$date->toShortDateString();
$date->toMediumDateString();
$date->toLongDateString();
$date->toFullDateString();

$date->toShortTimeString();
$date->toMediumTimeString();
$date->toLongTimeString();
$date->toFullTimeString();

$date->toShortDatetimeString();
$date->toMediumDatetimeString();
$date->toLongDatetimeString();
$date->toFullDatetimeString();
````

### Language

Output localized language names.

```php
use MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\Facades\Language;

// Application locale: nl
Language::name('en'); // Engels
Language::all(); // ['en' => 'Engels', 'nl' => 'Nederlands', ...]
```

```php
// Application locale: en
language('en'); // English
language()->all(); // ['en' => 'English', 'nl' => 'Dutch', ...]
```

### Number

Output localized numeric values into their localized pattern.

```php
use MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\Facades\Number;

// Application locale: en
Number::format(1000); // '1,000'
Number::percent('0.75'); // '75%'
```

```php
// Application locale: fr
number(1000); // '1 000'
number()->percent('0.75'); // '75 %'
```

Parse localized values into native PHP numbers.

```php
use MarvinRabe\LaravelIntl\Facades\Number;

// Application locale: fr
Number::parse('1 000'); // 1000
number()->parse('1,5'); // 1.5
```

## Changing locales

Ever feel the need to use a locale other than the current application locale? You can temporarily use another locale by using the `usingLocale()` method.

```php
country()->name('US'); // United States

country()->usingLocale('nl', function($country) {
    return $country->name('US');
}); // Verenigde Staten

country()->name('US'); // United States
```

Alternatively, you can force each component individually to the preferred locale for the remainder of the application by calling the `setLocale()` on the helper function or Facade.
Usually you'd set this in the `boot()` method of a *ServiceProvider*.
